Here the data used for the project will be stored. They will not be uploaded on gihub but the subfolder structure will be given here

Dataset - Description
------------------------------------------------------------
1. Innocent Deaths caused by Police (All time).csv - 
"This dataset was created by Fatal Encounters. 
This dataset contains incidents in which an individual meets death during an encounter with law enforcement officials. 
The majority of encounters occur as a result of police homicide, 
as when officers shoot a person who is presenting a lethal threat to them or others. 
However, there are other types of Encounters that do not involve acts of police homicide, 
but in which police are otherwise involved or are present. 
Examples include a vehicle crash during a police chase or a suicide in a barricade situation."

Columns:

Unique ID
Name
Age
Gender
Race
URL of image
 Date of injury resulting in death (month/day/year)
Location of injury (address)
Location of death (city)
State
Location of death (zip code)
Location of death (county)
Full Address
Latitude
Longitude
Agency or agencies involved
Highest level of force
Alleged weapon
Aggressive physical movement
Fleeing/Not fleeing
Description Temp
URL Temp
Brief description
Dispositions/Exclusions INTERNAL USE, NOT FOR ANALYSIS
Intended use of force (Developing)
Supporting document link
Foreknowledge of mental illness

2. Police Killings 2013-2021.csv - No official description

Columns:

Victim's name
Victim's age
Victim's gender
Victim's race
URL of image of victim
Date of Incident (month/day/year)
Street Address of Incident
City
State
Zipcode
County
Agency responsible for death
ORI Agency Identifier (if available)
Cause of death
A brief description of the circumstances surrounding the death
Official disposition of death (justified or other)
Criminal Charges?
Link to news article or photo of official document
Symptoms of mental illness?
Armed/Unarmed Status
Alleged Weapon (Source: WaPo and Review of Cases Not Included in WaPo Database)
Alleged Threat Level (Source: WaPo)
Fleeing (Source: WaPo)
Body Camera (Source: WaPo)
WaPo ID (If included in WaPo database)
Off-Duty Killing?
Geography (via Trulia methodology based on zipcode population density: http://jedkolko.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/full-ZCTA-urban-suburban-rural-classification.xlsx )
MPV ID
Fatal Encounters ID
Encounter Type (DRAFT)
Initial Reported Reason for Encounter (DRAFT)
Names of Officers Involved (DRAFT)
Race of Officers Involved (DRAFT)
Known Past Shootings of Officer(s) (DRAFT)
Call for Service? (DRAFT)

3 Police Violence and Racial Equity - 3 parts in folders. See inside folders for description and source